


Problem C | limit 60 seconds
Painted Cube
Once the ring of power had been found to be in Frodo's possession, Gandalf immediately rode
to seek the counsel of the head of his order, Saruman. Saruman disagreed with Gandalf's belief
that they should destroy the ring. He decided that he could not immediately let Gandalf go free
and help Frodo, so he locked Gandalf in the highest room of his dark tower in Isengard. To keep
Gandalf occupied, he placed a single door in the room that was only escapable by solving its riddle.
After a short while searching through the room for an escape, 

Gandalf noticed a most peculiar
lock on a door that appeared to lead to the roof of the tower. The lock was 
a standard six sided
cube with no markings on any of its surfaces. It was placed on top of a 
grid of size m * n. 

The grid had exactly six squares with paint on them. 

1) Gandalf noticed that 
when he rolled a blank face of the cube onto a square that had painted 
markings on it, the markings were transferred from the
grid onto the face of the cube. 

2) When the cube was rolled onto a square where no markings were
painted, and the contact surface of the cube had a marking on it, the 
marking was transferred from  the cube to the grid. 

3) If the cube was rolled over a square on the grid that had a marking on it and
the contact surface of the cube had a marking on it of any kind, then 
nothing happened.

Gandalf surmised that opening the door to the roof could only occur if the cube was rolled by a
sequence of moves to the goal square, such that all of the markings 
from the grid were transferred
to the cube. Furthermore, to escape Saruman's trap, he (correctly) guessed 
that he would need to
accomplish this in the minimum number of moves.

Given an initial configuration of paint on the squares, an initial location \of the cube, and a
desired goal location, what is the minimum number of moves that Gandalf must 
perform to get the
cube to the goal state with paint on all of its sides?
For the first example (see below), a sample solution would be down, right, right, up, right, right,
down, left, right, left.
Input
The input le will contain multiple test cases. Each test case will consist of an m  n grid of
characters, where m and n are each between 2 and 20. Within each test case, empty spaces will
be described by `.', painted squares by `P', illegal squares by `#', the initial position of the cube by
`C', and the goal square by `G'. There will always be exactly 6 `P's, exactly one `C', exactly one `G',
and no more than 12 `.'s. Input test cases will be separated by a single blank line. The input will
be terminated by the end of le.
Output
For each input test case, print the minimum number of moves required 
to obtain the goal state. If
it is not possible to achieve this state, print ..1.
2012 Pacic Northwest Region Programming Contest 4
Sample Input Sample Output
C.PPP
PPPG.
C....
G##.P
.##PP
..PPP
PPP
PCP
PG.
.PPPCPPP..
....G.....
10
23
15
21





